hi i'm alex from e2 language welcome to
this video
featuring a good essay and a bad essay
i'm going to give you a topic and we'll
look at the introduction
good and bad we'll also look at body one
together
body two you're going to examine on your
own and at the end of the video i'll
show you where to download
the full sample the good one that is
first things first though i'm going to
refer to the marking criteria a little
bit through this video
so i want you to make sure that you
understand the ielts writing task two
criteria
and luckily we have a video showing you
just that
check out this video to find out all
about the ielts marking criteria
don't take the test without
understanding what the examiner wants
from you that is
critical that is everything by the way
have you subscribed yet
if not make sure you hit the subscribe
button so you don't miss
anything here on e2 ielts okay here we
go
with a task two topic from a real recent
ielts test
the instructions at the top and down the
bottom are
the same for every task two you should
spend about 40 minutes on this task
give reasons for your answer and include
any relevant examples from your own
knowledge or experience
write at least 250 words okay but we're
interested in the topic
inside the box some people think that
products should be made
to last as long as possible while others
think
making the products cheap is more
important
discuss both views and express your own
opinion
if you want to have a go pause the video
now and try to write your own response
to this
essay otherwise let's have a look at
two introductions let's start with
the good introduction when buying a
product most people
weigh up price versus quality
while some feel that durability should
be the main priority
others argue that affordability is more
important
in this essay i will examine both views
and explain why i feel that companies
and customers
need to make responsible decisions okay
let me show you
why this is a good introduction
firstly it has three parts to it now
this is actually
not part of the official criteria but it
is a
standardized or conventional way to
structure
an introduction we have a background
statement
then a paraphrase of the question and
then our
position statement basically telling the
reader what's coming up
and what do i think notice the
paraphrase of the question which starts
here
in the second sentence and see how it's
very different
from the words in the question some
people think that products should be
made to last
as long as possible and in the intro
while some feel that durability should
be the main priority
the writer is saying the same thing but
not
borrowing chunks of language from the
question
and that is part of the ielts criteria
and in fact it's part of
the procedure for the examiner if the
examiner spots
too many words from the introduction
without any
changes to them they will simply ignore
that text
and actually cut it from your word count
too
so paraphrasing the question an
important step
another reason this is a good
introduction is that there is a clear
position so look down here right near
the end
i will examine both views and explain
why
i feel that something something
something explain why i feel
that is really important for your score
if you watch the other video
remember in task response to score band
seven and up
you must present a clear position
throughout the essay remember that word
throughout so that means
top to bottom intro body conclusion not
just conclusion
so this clear position why i feel that
companies and customers need to make
responsible decisions
that is really really important for the
score
the final thing i want to point out is
the topic specific
language in this intro so we've got in
the first line words like
buying product and then weigh
up price quality
all of these words are related to this
topic
about a product lasting a long time
versus a product that is cheap that's
the topic that we're talking about
shopping
so the examiner is really noticing those
words that relate to this topic
not just vague generalized words
in the second sentence look at these
words durability
priority affordability
third one customers companies
responsible decisions lots of rich
vocabulary
here so only three sentences but this
writer
is off to a really good start so let's
take this checklist
and have a look at an introduction that
is
not so good here it is
let's read when buying a product most
people weigh up price versus quality
that first sentence is exactly the same
as the one in the good introduction
some think that products should be made
to last as long as possible
others think making the products cheap
is more important in this essay i will
examine both views and provide my own
opinion
now it's actually kind of close to the
good paragraph but there are some
important differences here so yes there
are three parts to this introduction
just like in the good
intro but has this writer paraphrased
the question
here's the question again some people
think that products should be made to
last as long as possible
while others think making the products
cheap is more important notice how the
writer has just taken that language
and put it into the second sentence some
think that products should be made to
last as long as possible
it's a missing linker here others think
making the products
cheap others think making their products
cheap so an examiner would simply
disregard that sentence and remove it
from the word count
so no paraphrase here what else is wrong
is there a clear position let's look at
the final sentence in this essay i will
examine both views and provide my own
opinion
so as an examiner i'm crying here and
wondering
what is your opinion that's what i want
to know
i will examine both views and explain
why i feel
something something so this writer has
not
provided a clear position what about
topic-specific
language have a look at this intro what
language can you notice that is directly
related to this theme
the first sentence is pretty good when
buying a product price
quality the second sentence of course is
lifted directly from the question
so it doesn't really matter what the
language is in there and that final
sentence that sentence i will examine
both views and provide my own opinion
you could stick that sentence onto any
essay this type of essay
and get away with it but to an examiner
there's nothing interesting about that
sentence there's nothing to show that
you understand the topic or that you
have a range of
vocabulary to discuss it so is there
topic-specific language
no not enough also just one quick thing
to mention
is the grammar error which is here in
the second sentence
some think that products should be made
to last as long as possible
comma others think making the product
and so on this is a run-on
sentence very common error so
that's also going to affect the score so
here are our two
introductions side by side good on the
left not so good
on the right when writing your own
introduction
keep these things in mind let's go on to
body one now
now this time i want you to read the two
body ones
and think for yourself which one is the
good one
and which one is the bad one
we've got a on the left and b on the
right
take one minute to read a and b
and choose the best one
so hopefully you realize that a is the
strong
body one and b needs some attention
so let's have a look at what makes a so
much better
first of all notice the structure so e2
we teach
appeal structure that stands for
point explain example
effect link if you want to know more
about that
it's inside the course materials on
e2language.com
but you can see it here in this
paragraph the main point
is in the first line those who
prioritize quality
argue that if products lasted longer
waste could be reduced
that is the main point of this paragraph
some people think durability is the most
important thing because of
the environmental impact the waste
second sentence explains this a bit more
that's the
first e in peel indeed it is obvious
that as
products have become almost disposable
the amount of landfill is growing so
that's the explanation
how does better durability
impact the impact waste and impact the
environment
next sentence the next e is an example
most people for instance buy a new phone
every two
to three years regardless of need
specific example as a reader you know
exactly what i'm talking about you've
probably done
the same thing upgraded your phone even
though you didn't need to
the next e is the effect what impact
does this buying of mobile phones have
this throwaway mentality drives pushes
leads to
more production which also contributes
to environmental damage through
raw material extraction taking stuff out
of the ground
factory emissions transportation and
packaging the final sentence of this
paragraph is
l this is where we just return to the
topic return to the question
or sometimes we link forward to the next
paragraph
if we only bought one mobile phone per
decade instead
we could dramatically reduce this impact
so this is a beautifully structured
paragraph so within this beautiful
paragraph there is
a single idea which is relevant
extended and supported and that is a
feature
of band 8 and band 9 in task response
relevant extended supported ideas
so the writer hasn't just said making
products last longer is good for the
environment
they've also explained how and why and
given
a specific example that's what it means
to give a relevant
extended supported idea
let's think about linking all the
sentences here
are holding hands each sentence has some
kind of
connection to the sentence before and
after
i'll show you what i mean those who
prioritize
quality argue that if products lasted
longer waste could be reduced so that's
my topic sentence
the next sentence should somehow hang on
to that first sentence
and it does it here with this linking
word indeed
indeed it is obvious that as products
have become almost
disposable blah blah blah next paragraph
should be holding hands again
most people for instance this is my
linking word here or my linking
expression
for instance i've given an example of
what i mentioned in the sentence before
how about the next sentence from here
what's the connection how are they
holding hands
this throwaway mentality this throwaway
mentality refers to
something i mentioned in the sentence
before and so on so notice that each
sentence
is connected to each other they're not
just sitting
out there all by themselves another
thing to notice
is that the linking attracts no
attention so yes
each sentence is linked to the one
before and after but when you look at
that paragraph
you almost don't see those linking words
because like this for instance
it's sitting inside the sentence not at
the beginning
the way that indeed is also a linking
word like
this and a linking word like instead
they're in there but they're not obvious
they're not always at the beginning of
the sentence not
big linking words like however therefore
moreover so sophisticated linking
barely noticeable very important if you
want to score band 8
or higher in coherence and cohesion
grammar wise we've got some complex
sentences here
here's one using the conjunction
if here is one
with as we've got relative clause here
which also contributes and another if
sentence at the end here
complex sentences not complicated
sentences if you want to know more about
how to write complex
sentences click on the link to watch our
video on that
remember in the introduction i mentioned
that topic specific
language topic specific vocabulary can
you see
some more of that in this body one
so i've got we've got things like
prioritize quality
products lasted longer waste
disposable landfill
even this one new phone specific type of
product
throwaway mentality drives production
environmental damage lots and lots of
rich vocab
relevant to this topic so the examiner
would reward that topic specific
vocabulary
with seven or above band seven remember
you need less common lexical items
think of that as topic-specific language
so if you're writing an essay about
art the examiner is looking trawling
through looking for
vocabulary related to that topic so same
in this case we're talking about
products prices the examiner wants to
see
relevant vocab all of these things and
more create this beautiful body one
paragraph
let's flip it now and have a look at the
bad body paragraph
this paragraph reads firstly some people
think products should be
durable they say that products should
last a long time
however these days some products only
last a short time
if products lasted longer it would be
better
now grammatically it's all correct here
however
hopefully you notice this structure
two things this structure does not
follow the peel format
but more importantly the ideas are not
extended and supported some people think
products should be durable
they say products should last a long
time see how those two sentences
they're actually saying the same thing
some people think
products should last longer some people
think products should last longer
however these days some products only
last a short time
that's not taking the idea forward at
all it's just saying
the opposite thing if products lasted
longer it would be better again we're
repeating
exactly the same point as the first two
sentences
so this paragraph really goes nowhere
you compare it to the other body
paragraph which
took that idea about
durability and the impact on the
environment and really
drew out the idea as far as it could go
this one is obviously much much weaker
so no appeal structure and no relevant
extended supported idea
now are the sentences holding hands here
i've got linking words like firstly
they however so they're sort of holding
hands but as i mentioned the
flow of ideas doesn't really make sense
it's just the same thing
over and over so holding hands but
not in a good way next bullet point
linking attracts no attention so when
you look at that paragraph
is the linking obvious words like this
firstly comma however comma
these are examples of mechanical linking
this paragraph is not
too bad but if all of the sentences use
linking in that way linking word comma
linking word comma
that is classic mechanical linking which
will limit your score in coherence and
cohesion
to band six make sure you watch that
video on marking criteria if you don't
know what mechanical linking
is it is important to know what it is
and not to do it on test day how about
grammar have we got some complex
sentences the final sentence is a
complex sentence starting with
if however the rest of them are simple
sentences now it's totally fine
in your essay to use a combination
simple compound and complex
but this paragraph doesn't really
demonstrate a wide range
certainly not the range required for
band seven or higher
topic specific vocabulary when you look
at that paragraph what
interesting less common topic specific
words
can you see i've got the word product
durable products last a long time
products products very repetitive right
so this writer has not demonstrated the
range
that the previous writer demonstrated so
that's the intro
and body one good versus bad let's have
a look at body two and i want you
to do the analysis this time i'm going
to show you both of them
i want you to put into the comments
below what you think
are the good things and the bad things
about these body paragraphs
take two minutes to read the good and
the bad and put your ideas
into the comments section
all right let's have a look at the full
essays now i'm going to start with
the bad one and then i'm going to give
you the good one to have a look at
yourself now you'll notice straight away
that the bad essay is
too short it's only about 150 words much
much too short take two minutes
and read through the whole essay quickly
so what makes this essay not so good how
could the writer improve
first of all big problem the writer has
addressed the task
only partially so remember that the
topic was discuss both views plus
your opinion in this essay there is no
writer's opinion so that is going to
really bring down
the task response score
a related problem is the missing
position
so this writer hasn't given their
position even in the conclusion
this is going to limit this essay
unbelievably to a band
three in task response so at the end of
the essay i don't know what the writer
thinks
band three task response
another problem still in the task
response criterion the ideas are not
developed
so we looked at this in body one
together it's not enough to just say the
idea over and over
it's also not enough to just list four
or five ideas
you have to extend develop support
tell me why tell me how give me a
specific example
give me the effect as well
this essay is very repetitive if you see
how many times the word products
is used you'll be surprised so there is
very little range here in terms of vocab
the linking is quite mechanical in
particular in body 2 where
the linking word is at the start of the
sentence
in almost every sentence mechanical
linking
no more than band six incoherence and
cohesion
as i mentioned the writer has not
demonstrated a wide range in fact
there's quite
a limited range of vocab and similarly
for grammar
besides that first error in the
introduction it is error-free
but in terms of range it is not going to
score 7 or above
so that's why that essay is not so good
but
let's talk about the good essay what
makes
it so good i want you to download the
full sample
from the description below and have a
think about it yourself
task response coherence and cohesion
lexical resource grammatical range and
accuracy those are the four criteria
why is that essay so much better feel
free to share your comments
in this in the comment section below as
well remember that when it comes to
ielts writing
practice is key you can join me and
other ielts teachers on e2language.com
for our daily live classes
we can assess your writing for you take
a one-on-one tutorial
and heaps more sign up today at e2
language
i'll see you there bye
you